Q1) Write the difference between JRE, JDK and JVM?

Ans 1) - a) JRE (Java Runtime Environment) is a software package that provides Java class libraries, Java Virtual Machine (JVM), and other components that are required to run Java applications.

           b) JDK (Java Development Kit) is a software development kit required to develop applications in Java. When you download JDK, JRE is also downloaded with it.

          c) JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is an abstract machine that enables your computer to run a Java program.  When you run the Java program, Java compiler first compiles your Java code to bytecode. Then, the JVM translates bytecode into native machine code (set of instructions that a computer's CPU executes directly).

Q2) Write the difference between JSE, JEE and JME?

Ans 2)  a) JSE stand for java standard edition. It allows the development and deployment of java applications used in desktops, servers, embedded environments and real-time environments. java SE contains classes developed for java web services and provides a foundation for java platform and enterprise edition (JEE).
           b)  JEE stand for  java enterprise edition. Enterprise Edition helps develop and deploy portable, robust, scalable and secure server-side java applications. Java EE is built on the basis of java SE. It provides Web services, component models, management and communication APIs, which can be used To achieve enterprise-level service-oriented architecture (service oriented architecture, SOA) and Web 2.0 applications.
           c) JME stand for java mirco edition. Provide a robust and flexible environment for applications running on mobile devices and embedded devices (such as mobile phones, PDAs, TV set-top boxes, and printers). Java ME includes a flexible user interface, a robust security model, many built-in network protocols, and rich support for networked and offline applications that can be downloaded dynamically. Applications based on the Java ME specification only need to be written once and can be used for many devices, and can take advantage of the native functions of each device. java mirco edition. Provide a robust and flexible environment for applications running on mobile devices and embedded devices (such as mobile phones, PDAs, TV set-top boxes, and printers). Java ME includes a flexible user interface, a robust security model, many built-in network protocols, and rich support for networked and offline applications that can be downloaded dynamically. Applications based on the Java ME specification only need to be written once and can be used for many devices, and can take advantage of the native functions of each device.

Q3) How does java achieve platform independency?

Ans 3) The byte code generated by the javac compiler can be executed on all kinds of Operating Systems which is unlike other programming languages. Basically, the byte code generated by Java needs JVM only. It does not depend on the operating system.

Q4) What are features of Java and explain them?

Ans 4) Features of java are as follow :
        a) Simple
           Java is easy to learn and its syntax is quite simple, clean and easy to understand.The confusing and ambiguous            concepts of C++ are either left out in Java or they have been re-implemented in a cleaner way.

           Eg : Pointers and Operator Overloading are not there in java but were an important part of C++.

       b) Object Oriented
      In java, everything is an object which has some data and behaviour. Java can be easily extended as it is based on       Object Model. Following are some basic concept of OOP's.
Q5) Write a Java Application which prints your details?

Ans 5) 
public class Details {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("Name : Ajitabh Dash\nFather Name : jadab Ch Dash\nMother Name : Baijayanti Dash\nAge : 27\nGender : Male\nAddress : BBSR Odisha\nMobile No. :7377XXXXX");
    }


}